=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

unison - A file-synchronization tool for Unix and Windows

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 unison [options]
 or unison root1 root2 [options]
 or unison profilename [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Unison is a file-synchronization tool for Unix and Windows. It allows two replicas of a collection of files and directories to be stored on different hosts (or different disks on the same host), modified separately, and then brought up to date by propagating the changes in each replica to the other.

Unison shares a number of features with tools such as configuration management packages (CVS, PRCS, Subversion, BitKeeper, etc.), distributed filesystems (Coda, etc.), uni-directional mirroring utilities (rsync, etc.), and other synchronizers (Intellisync, Reconcile, etc). However, there are several points where it differs:

=over 4

=item *

Unison runs on both Windows and many flavors of Unix (Solaris, Linux, OS X, etc.) systems. Moreover, Unison works across platforms, allowing you to synchronize a Windows laptop with a Unix server, for example.

=item *

Unlike simple mirroring or backup utilities, Unison can deal with updates to both replicas of a distributed directory structure. Updates that do not conflict are propagated automatically. Conflicting updates are detected and displayed.

=item *

Unlike a distributed filesystem, Unison is a user-level program: there is no need to modify the kernel or to have superuser privileges on either host.

=item *

Unison works between any pair of machines connected to the internet, communicating over either a direct socket link or tunneling over an encrypted ssh connection. It is careful with network bandwidth, and runs well over slow links such as PPP connections. Transfers of small updates to large files are optimized using a compression protocol similar to rsync.

=item *

Unison is resilient to failure. It is careful to leave the replicas and its own private structures in a sensible state at all times, even in case of abnormal termination or communication failures.

=item *

Unison has a clear and precise specification.

=item *

Unison is free; full source code is available under the GNU Public License.

=back

Options:

 -auto
         automatically accept default (nonconflicting) actions

 -batch
         batch mode: ask no questions at all

 -doc xxx
         show documentation ('-doc topics' lists topics)

 -fat
         use appropriate options for FAT filesystems

 -group
         synchronize group attributes

 -ignore xxx
         add a pattern to the ignore list

 -ignorenot xxx
         add a pattern to the ignorenot list

 -nocreation xxx
         prevent file creations on one replica

 -nodeletion xxx
         prevent file deletions on one replica

 -noupdate xxx
         prevent file updates and deletions on one replica

 -owner
         synchronize owner

 -path xxx
         path to synchronize

 -perms n
         part of the permissions which is synchronized

 -root xxx
         root of a replica (should be used exactly twice)

 -silent
         print nothing except error messages

 -terse
         suppress status messages

 -testserver
         exit immediately after the connection to the server

 -times
         synchronize modification times

 -version
         print version and exit

Advanced options:

 -addprefsto xxx
         file to add new prefs to

 -addversionno
         add version number to name of unison on server

 -backup xxx
         add a pattern to the backup list

 -backupcurr xxx
         add a pattern to the backupcurr list

 -backupcurrnot xxx
         add a pattern to the backupcurrnot list

 -backupdir xxx
         directory for storing centralized backups

 -backuploc xxx
         where backups are stored ('local' or 'central')

 -backupnot xxx
         add a pattern to the backupnot list

 -backupprefix xxx
         prefix for the names of backup files

 -backups
         keep backup copies of all files (see also 'backup')

 -backupsuffix xxx
         a suffix to be added to names of backup files

 -confirmbigdel
         ask about whole-replica (or path) deletes (default true)

 -confirmmerge
         ask for confirmation before commiting results of a merge

 -contactquietly
         suppress the 'contacting server' message during startup

 -copymax n
         maximum number of simultaneous copyprog transfers

 -copyprog xxx
         external program for copying large files

 -copyprogrest xxx
         variant of copyprog for resuming partial transfers

 -copyquoterem xxx
         add quotes to remote file name for copyprog (true/false/default)

 -copythreshold n
         use copyprog on files bigger than this (if >=0, in Kb)

 -debug xxx
         debug module xxx ('all' -> everything, 'verbose' -> more)

 -diff xxx
         set command for showing differences between files

 -dontchmod
         when set, never use the chmod system call

 -dumbtty
         do not change terminal settings in text UI

 -fastcheck xxx
         do fast update detection (true/false/default)

 -follow xxx
         add a pattern to the follow list

 -force xxx
         force changes from this replica to the other

 -forcepartial xxx
         add a pattern to the forcepartial list

 -halfduplex
         force half-duplex communication with the server

 -height n
         height (in lines) of main window in graphical interface

 -host xxx
         bind the socket to this host name in server socket mode

 -ignorearchives
         ignore existing archive files

 -ignorecase xxx
         identify upper/lowercase filenames (true/false/default)

 -ignoreinodenumbers
         ignore inode number changes when detecting updates

 -ignorelocks
         ignore locks left over from previous run (dangerous!)

 -immutable xxx
         add a pattern to the immutable list

 -immutablenot xxx
         add a pattern to the immutablenot list

 -key xxx
         define a keyboard shortcut for this profile (in some UIs)

 -killserver
         kill server when done (even when using sockets)

 -label xxx
         provide a descriptive string label for this profile

 -links xxx
         allow the synchronization of symbolic links (true/false/default)

 -log
         record actions in logfile (default true)

 -logfile xxx
         logfile name

 -maxbackups n
         number of backed up versions of a file

 -maxerrors n
         maximum number of errors before a directory transfer is aborted

 -maxthreads n
         maximum number of simultaneous file transfers

 -merge xxx
         add a pattern to the merge list

 -mountpoint xxx
         abort if this path does not exist

 -nocreationpartial xxx
         add a pattern to the nocreationpartial list

 -nodeletionpartial xxx
         add a pattern to the nodeletionpartial list

 -noupdatepartial xxx
         add a pattern to the noupdatepartial list

 -numericids
         don't map uid/gid values by user/group names

 -prefer xxx
         choose this replica's version for conflicting changes

 -preferpartial xxx
         add a pattern to the preferpartial list

 -repeat xxx
         synchronize repeatedly (text interface only)

 -retry n
         re-try failed synchronizations N times (text ui only)

 -rootalias xxx
         register alias for canonical root names

 -rsrc xxx
         synchronize resource forks (true/false/default)

 -rsync
         activate the rsync transfer mode (default true)

 -selftest
         run internal tests and exit

 -servercmd xxx
         name of unison executable on remote server

 -showarchive
         show 'true names' (for rootalias) of roots and archive

 -socket xxx
         act as a server on a socket

 -sortbysize
         list changed files by size, not name

 -sortfirst xxx
         add a pattern to the sortfirst list

 -sortlast xxx
         add a pattern to the sortlast list

 -sortnewfirst
         list new before changed files

 -sshargs xxx
         other arguments (if any) for remote shell command

 -sshcmd xxx
         path to the ssh executable

 -stream
         use a streaming protocol for transferring file contents (default true)
 -ui xxx
         select UI ('text' or 'graphic'); command-line only

 -unicode xxx
         assume Unicode encoding in case insensitive mode

 -xferbycopying
         optimize transfers using local copies (default true)

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Benjamin C. Pierce.

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report unison bugs to unison-users@groups.yahoo.com.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Unison is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

Unison is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

The GNU Public License can be found at L<http://www.gnu.org/licenses>. A copy is also included in the Unison source distribution in the file COPYING.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The full documentation is available at L<http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/unison/download/releases/stable/unison-manual.html>

